[travis-ci-badge]: https://travis-ci.org/jasonwhite/ducible.svg?branch=master
[appveyor-badge]: https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/96cmnhjw4159goep/branch/master?svg=true

# Ducible

[![Build Status][travis-ci-badge]](https://travis-ci.org/jasonwhite/ducible)
[![Build status][appveyor-badge]](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/jasonwhite/ducible/branch/master)

This is a tool to make builds of Portable Executables (PEs) and PDBs
repro*ducible*.

Timestamps and other non-deterministic data are embedded in DLLs, EXEs, and
PDBs. If some source is compiled and linked twice without changing any source,
the binary will not be bit-by-bit identical both times. This tool fixes that by
modifying DLLs/EXEs and rewriting PDBs.

## Why?

In general, reproducible builds give a verifiable path from *source code* to
*binary code*. There are a number of security reasons and practical reasons for
why this is good. More specifically, it enables

 * confidence that two parties built a binary with the same environment,
 * recreating a release bit-for-bit from source code,
 * recreating debug symbols for a particular version of source code, and
 * verifiable and correct distributed builds.

See https://reproducible-builds.org/docs/buy-in/ for more information on why you
should want this.

## Using It

Usage is as follows:

    $ ducible IMAGE [PDB]

The EXE/DLL is specified as the first parameter and the PDB is optionally
specified as the second. The PDB must be modified because changing the image
invalidates the signature for the PDB.

As a post-build step, simply run:

    $ ducible MyModule.dll MyModule.pdb

The files are overwritten in-place.

## Downloading It

See the [releases][] for downloads.

[releases]: https://github.com/jasonwhite/ducible/releases

## Building It

This is written in C++14. There are no third party dependencies and it should be
buildable and runnable on any platform (even non-Windows!).

Required build tools:

 1. **Python 3**

    Python is used to generate `src/version.h`.

 2. **Git**

    Git is used to get the current commit hash. This is embedded in the
    `src/version.h` that is generated by Python.

Both of these tools must be in your `PATH`.

### Windows

Just open `vs/vs2015/ducible.sln` and build it. Of course, this requires Visual
Studio 2015. If another version of Visual Studio is needed, please submit an
issue or, better yet, a pull request.

### Linux

Although this is primarily a Windows utility, it was developed in a Linux
environment simply because it was faster and easier. One might also want to use
it for compiling Windows binaries on Linux. Thus, it builds and runs on Linux as
well.

To build it, just run `make`.

### OS X

This hasn't been tested on OS X, but it probably works as there is nothing
Linux-specific in the code.

To build it, just run `make`.

## Related Work

I am only aware of the [zap_timestamp][] tool in [Syzygy][]. Unfortunately, it
has a few problems:

 1. It does not work with 64-bit PE files (i.e., the PE32+ format).
 2. It does not create a reproducible PDB file.
 3. It is a pain to build. It is part of a larger suite of tools that operate on
    PE files. That suite then requires Google's depot_tools. The end result is
    that you're required to download hundreds of megabytes of tooling around
    something that should be very simple.

[zap_timestamp]: https://github.com/google/syzygy/tree/master/syzygy/zap_timestamp
[Syzygy]: https://github.com/google/syzygy

## License

As always, this tool uses the very liberal [MIT License](/LICENSE). Use it for
whatever nefarious purposes you like.
